What does the Content Provider do?
    We can centeralize the accessing and the editing of the data via the Content Provider.

How does the Content Provider work?
    It acts as black box for the data(e.g. DB, Text, photo...). The UI code only interacts with 
    the Content Provider. No matter what kind of data is inside/handled by the Provider.  

What is the benefit of using Content Provider?
    It adds a good abstraction layer between the data sourse and the UI code, in which it will 
    give the following benefits:
      1-Add data validation.
      2-Moidfy how data is stored while the UI code is unaffected(unchanged).
      3-Works well with other Android framework classes.
      4-Can share data with other apps securely. 

Note:When sharing data via the Content Provider between different Apps, the Content Provider is
exposed to the Android System itself, rather than being exposed to other Apps directly. And from
there other Apps can access the Provider.

How do orher Apps communicate with the Content Provider?
    They do so through the contract, and when you need a more specific data you request that data by
    using a Content URI.

Why use a Content URI?
    Because there maybe numerous Content Providers(from different Apps) in the Android System, so 
    by using the Content URI, you can identify the desired Content Provider by using the Content
    Resolver.

What does the Content Resolver do?
    It takes the Content URI and resolves(figure or find out) which Content Provider should handle 
    the request. It does so, by using the Content Authority.

What is the Content Authority?
    It is the first part of the Content URI, which is com.android.<app name>. Like the 
    domain/authority part in a web URL.

Note:In reality the Apps don't communicate with Content Providers directly, actually they 
communicate with the Content Resolver, and then the Resolver communicate to the Provider.    

What is a URI Matcher?
    The Content Provider utilzes/use the URI Matcher, which determines what kind/pattern of URI was passed to it(you create the different 
    kinds/patterns, they are not built in).You create patterns for the Matcher, which you can check an example of in the 
    uri_matcher_pattern_example pic.

What does the URI Matcher do?
    open uri_matcher_pattern_use pic.    

Note:The URI Matcher is job is to ensure the Content Provider would only handle valid URIs.    

What is the purpose of the getUri(Uri uri) method?
     The purpose of this method is to return a String that describes the type of the data stored at the input Uri. This String is known as 
     the MIME type, which can also be referred to as content type.

Note:Check the MIME_further explanation.     